in this world there are spiders the size
of a house
the water in the rivers is as hot as
lava and the grass is the sharp in the
blade
but you don't have any reason to be
worried because you control everything
in this world
this is your dream there are no barriers
for you here
you can run at the speed of light fly
across the sky
jump from one planet to another there
are no boring rules
the laws of physics and biology are a
distant memory
animals can talk and trees can walk the
floating mountains look especially
beautiful against the background of the
bright red sky
do you want a closer look no problem
this is your world
you could pick up your bike and race
across the clouds to the mountains
no that's far too boring you can become
a cloud
and float there yourself
what who's coughing there's someone
standing behind you
you turn around and see a man in a white
coat and glasses
dr johnson what are you doing in my
dream he starts to talk to you
buddy it's time for you to wake up
suddenly everything fades to black
something unknown pulls you out of the
dream world
you slowly open your eyes weirdly you
don't feel groggy at all
electrical sensors are dangling
uncomfortably on your head
dr johnson is standing in front of you
next to a lot of complicated equipment
hey welcome back to the real world for
more than 100 years
researchers have been trying to unravel
the mystery of dreams
in recent years they've taken a small
but important step forward
scientists don't know how to fully enter
our dreams
but they've learned to communicate with
a dreamer while they sleep
in four independent laboratories
scientists observed the sleep of 36
volunteers
for this they used special sensors that
monitor brain activity and pick up
neural signals
the researchers asked the participants
questions with audio recordings and
morse code
they tapped on the volunteers hands and
blinked light signals to try to get
through to the dreamers
amazingly when they woke up the sleeping
people claimed to have heard the
scientists like a voiceover in a movie
for some the audio recording even became
part of their dream
for example one of the dreamers said
they heard a voice coming out of a radio
asking if they knew the spanish language
volunteers answered yes or no questions
with eye movements or facial muscle cues
they could even solve math problems in
their sleep
when asked what 8-6 was a volunteer
blanked their left and right eyes to
signal the answer was two
of almost 160 questions asked the
researchers successfully established a
two-way contact
around 20 of the time that means that
even now
scientists can infiltrate our dreams
reasonably easily
you might be surprised at how much
scientists already know about the way
humans sleep
an average person in good health gets to
sleep in about 10 minutes
sleep isn't that simple though it comes
in a few different stages
as soon as you fall asleep you're in
something called non-rem sleep
this early stage of sleep brain activity
heart rate
breathing rate and body temperature all
drop
this takes up about 70 percent of our
total time of sleep
sleep continues through a few more
phases until it reaches rem sleep
after 80 to 90 minutes rem means rapid
eye movement
describing the strange darting movements
that our eyes make during this sleep
stage
rem is the deepest stage of sleep and
most scientists agree that it's the most
crucial part of your night
even though it's only around thirty
percent of your time asleep
interestingly there isn't much
difference in brain wave activity
between rem sleep and wakefulness
at this time you see the most vivid and
lucid dreams
if you wake up unexpectedly you'll most
likely be able to remember what you saw
in your dream
while most muscles relax during non-rem
they all tense up and freeze in place
when you reach the deepest stage of
sleep
this paralysis is useful it stops us
from moving or reacting in response to
vivid dreams
most people spend about a third of their
life asleep a good night's rest is as
essential
as food water air and the internet
but what could happen if you stayed
awake for a long time without sleeping
if you neglected sleep for more than 24
hours your memory
attentiveness and hearing would all get
worse you would find it difficult to
make decisions
and your visual coordination would
decrease
after 36 hours of insomnia blood
pressure rises
hormone production is disrupted so your
emotions would become erratic and you
would have little self-control
you'd struggle to motivate yourself to
do anything at 48 hours without sleep
your emotional and physical condition
would plummet
your body would try to save you by
forcing you to have micro sleeps
microsleep is where your body shuts down
for as little as a few seconds
but most people don't even notice their
bodies do this so it can be really
dangerous to do anything without proper
sleep
whatever you're doing your vision fades
and your brain shuts itself off
you would wake up and continue whatever
you were doing without even noticing the
few seconds you lost
after 72 hours without sleep things
start to get serious
even though this might not seem like
that long without sleep
things get really bad at this point you
might begin to experience hallucinations
and most people begin to lose their
connection to the real world and act
strangely
overall it isn't a good idea to go
without sleep it even worsens the skin
leads to an increase in general stress
all of this might make you wonder what
the world record is for spending the
longest time awake
if things get that bad after only two
and a half days
surely it can't be much longer than that
one of the longest times ever recorded
was by randy gardner a student in 1964.
he kept himself awake for 11 days and 25
minutes
in total he was awake for 264.4
hours all of this was done for a
scientific experiment
he wanted to prove that extreme sleep
deprivation had no real long-term
consequences
for the most part he seemed to be right
gardner was irritable for most of the
experiment but he didn't face any
terrible issues
the longer it went the worst thing he
experienced was hallucinations and
forgetfulness
did you know that a lot of older people
dream in black and white the older the
person
the more likely it is that their nightly
adventures are colorless
25 of people over 50 years old report
black and white dreams
incredibly scientists believe that this
has to do with television
people who watched black and white
programs in their childhood dream in the
same color
these people are now older and despite
watching colored tv now
they still dream in black and white
among younger people
only twelve percent dream in black and
white it's interesting to think what
color people dreamed it before any kind
of tv existed
did black and white tv make people dream
without color or did color tv
make dreams more colorful for four
percent of americans
sleep is a difficult time these people
are on the border of the real world and
the world of dreams
this group of people are called
sleepwalkers in science
this condition is called somnambulism
people who have this disorder
may not be in control of their
activities while they sleep
this might sound like fun but only at
first glance
sleepwalking is a serious risk imagine
that you're asleep
and your body gets out of bed and goes
for a walk down the street
things could get risky very quickly you
might even walk down to your local bank
and try to withdraw some money
pretty much everyone has dreamed of
falling from a height and woken abruptly
just before they hit the ground
this is called a myoclonic jerk it often
happens just as you're falling asleep
and we still don't really know the cause
one theory is that all of the muscles in
your body completely relax
and your body begins to drift off before
your mind has had a chance to get ready
to sleep
you begin to dream and your conscious
brain panics
feeling like it's falling and forces the
body awake to save you
luckily it doesn't cause any damage and
isn't indicative of any broader problems
it can be a bit annoying when you're
wrapped up in a cozy bed ready to doze
off though
on average we have four to six dreams
per night
five minutes after waking up you forget
fifty percent of your dreams
and after ten minutes ninety percent of
your dreams will have disappeared
forever
many people think they don't have dreams
at all but really they just forget them
all quickly
we all have dreams but scientists don't
know why exactly
some believe that the brain uses dreams
to process life experiences
and the events of the day some
psychologists see sleep as a monitor
through which we can see
ourselves have you ever had the same
dream several times in a row
maybe your subconscious mind is trying
to tell you something
many dreams are strange very strange
there can be a lot of absurdity in them
dreams shouldn't be taken literally but
they can be interpreted to give you
useful clues about your life
is a monster chasing you or are you
running away from a car
the subconscious mind warns you about
the problems at work
school or in a relationship maybe
running away from something in the real
world
one common dream is that you're standing
on top of a mountain or on the roof of a
skyscraper
and feel scared or anxious this might
mean that you're ready to take on new
heights
but are afraid to move forward if you're
flying in the sky
or on an airplane in your dream then it
could show that you've defeated a big
obstacle in your life
it might be time to look for new
opportunities and new victories
maybe you dreamed that you were walking
through the house you grew up in
but you can't find a room if this is the
case your subconscious mind might be
warning you that you're suppressing part
of your personality
find the lost room perhaps this is a new
hobby
work or moving to another city in your
dream
are you late for a meeting or did you
oversleep your alarm clock
stop running away from responsibility
it's time for you to take control of
your life
take the initiative and you'll succeed